[website][upgrade] feat: docs migration - transactions (#12085)
apache/pulsar: site2/website-next/docs/txn-what.md

---
id: txn-what
title: What are transactions?
sidebar_label: What are transactions?
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Transactions strengthen the message delivery semantics of Apache Pulsar and [processing guarantees of Pulsar Functions](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/next/functions-overview/#processing-guarantees). The Pulsar Transaction API supports atomic writes and acknowledgments across multiple topics. 

Transactions allow:

- A producer to send a batch of messages to multiple topics where all messages in the batch are eventually visible to any consumer, or none are ever visible to consumers. 

- End-to-end exactly-once semantics (execute a `consume-process-produce` operation exactly once).

## Transaction semantics

Pulsar transactions have the following semantics: 

* All operations within a transaction are committed as a single unit.
   
  * Either all messages are committed, or none of them are. 

  * Each message is written or processed exactly once, without data loss or duplicates (even in the event of failures). 

>   * If a transaction is aborted, all the writes and acknowledgments in this transaction rollback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If a transaction is aborted, all the writes and acknowledgments in this transaction roll back.
```

    
  * Message acks across multiple subscriptions are atomic. A message is acked successfully only once by a consumer under the subscription when acknowledging the message with the transaction ID.

## Transactions and stream processing

Stream processing on Pulsar is a `consume-process-produce` operation on Pulsar topics:

* `Consume`: a source operator that runs a Pulsar consumer reads messages from one or multiple Pulsar topics.
  
* `Process`: a processing operator transforms the messages. 
  
* `Produce`: a sink operator that runs a Pulsar producer writes the resulting messages to one or multiple Pulsar topics.

![](/assets/txn-2.png)

Pulsar transactions support end-to-end exactly-once stream processing, which means messages are not lost from a source operator and messages are not duplicated to a sink operator.

## Use case

Prior to Pulsar 2.8.0, there was no easy way to build stream processing applications with Pulsar to achieve exactly-once processing guarantees. With the transaction introduced in Pulsar 2.8.0, the following services support exactly-once semantics:

* [Pulsar Flink connector](https://flink.apache.org/2021/01/07/pulsar-flink-connector-270.html)

>     Prior to Pulsar 2.8.0, if you want to build stream applications using Pulsar and Flink, the Pulsar Flink connector only supported exactly-once source connector and at-least-once sink connector, which means the highest processing guarantee for end-to-end was at-least-once, there was possibility that the resulting messages from streaming applications produce duplicated messages to the resulting topics in Pulsar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Prior to Pulsar 2.8.0, if you wanted to build stream applications using Pulsar and Flink, the Pulsar Flink connector only supported exactly-once source connector and at-least-once sink connector, which means the highest processing guarantee for end-to-end was at-least-once. There was possibility that the resulting messages from streaming applications produce duplicated messages to the resulting topics in Pulsar.
```
